well the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is in Saudi Arabia as part of a
wider Regional diplomatic tour that
began on Thursday Lincoln is meeting
leaders to discuss the war on Gaza and
is due to arrive in Israel just in the
next hour or so Al's senior political
analyst Mar bash joins us now here on
set so Lincoln We Believe will be
touching down within this hour actually
he's arriving in Israel on a day that it
has killed 250
plus people in Gaza what do you make of
that it's really
incredulous just as the Biden
Administration and secretary blinkin are
trying to put out the fires that Israel
has been inflaming Israel throws more
fuel to the fire in Gaza and
Lebanon this uh you know killings in
Gaza this industrial scale murder of
hundreds of people every day and
inflaming the situation with Lebanon at
the same time while it's also heating up
on the West Bank with more occupation of
more Palestinian cities on the West Bank
all of that you know makes one wonder is
the United States complicit with Israel
playing good cup to Israel's bad cup
attitude bad cup horrible cup attitude
in the occupied Palestinian territories
or is the Biden Administration in on it
meaning
it wants Hamas defeated at any cost even
if it's playing touchy feely about
civilian deaths but in fact it wants
Israel to continue with the war even in
different kind of phase but it wants
Hamas defeated it wants to bring back
America's P Americana Abraham Accords
and so on so forth because as we all
know the Biden Administration wanted to
bring America back to the area doesn't
want Iran Russia and China to fill up
any strategic void the problem with all
of that as I've been reminded could it
be both cynical and stupid at the same
time in the sense that yes it might have
a geopolitical imperative but putting it
in the hands of Netanyahu and his
fascist ministers and his army that is
not uh you know is not uh afraid of
committing the worst of massacres and
escalating the worst of situation in a
volatile region
in a sense that uh the Biden
Administration is boxing it in behind a
prime minister and a and a and a
government that's not even popular in
its own country I mean if you conduct a
negotiation an election today in Israel
this whole Coalition probably will be
collapsing and not gaining another
election and in the US with Biden he
wouldn't be being elected today would he
so you know again right cynical stupid
or both because this is definitely not
serving America's interest and the in in
the United stat the Biden
administration's interest in the United
States Biden already is not popular in
an election year although his economy is
doing really well but clearly there's a
sense there's a perception that Biden is
losing it you know age and otherwise and
the the the boiling public opinion
especially in the Democratic party that
really wants a ceasefire right today we
just heard now from Biden speaking in a
church where he says you know he gets
why people want a ceas fire why don't
you act on it right is the United States
Biden has huge leverage with Israel
right the Diplomatic support the
military support the financial support
as I was saying earlier Israel got from
the United States more than the
equivalent of what the entire continent
of Europe got out of the United States
in terms of the Marshal plan after
second world war and yet Biden is not
able to use leverage about the day after
to talk to Israel about what to do about
Gaza the day after what to do about the
West Bank they're not able to get Israel
to agree on a single one of its demands
Palestinian Authority needs to extend
its authority to Gaza Netanyahu says no
no reoccupation of Gaza nanaho says no
no security zones Gaza Netanyahu says no
whatever the Biden Administration propos
in terms of longterm plan of a
Palestinian state naano says absolutely
not so where is the disconnect
well it's not so much of a disconnect as
much as there's this idea that Biden has
this romantic idea about an Israel
that's fighting for its life and Israel
that is struggling against uh you know
uh extremist in a dangerous neighborhood
and the likes this might have been I
don't think it was but this might have
been the perception back in the 1980s or
the 1970s when Biden first visited
Israel in 1972 or 197 this might have
been the case right but today Israel is
one of the richest countries in the
world it is the most uh powerful
military in the region it's a nuclear
power right so the idea that Biden
continues to think about it in a
romantic wrong way is definitely hurting
both Israel the region and the United
States so the idea is that's something
got to give right what what would it
be I
think the people in the region that
blinkin visited from Turkey
to Saudi Arabia through Jordan and
Lebanon and now perhaps the Palestinian
Authority he needs to hear an ears full
that look we have a plan it's called the
Arab plan the Arab plan is about two
states it's about recognizing Israel not
only by all the Arab countries but by
all the Arab and Muslim majority
countries there is a plan on the table
peace is possible without War and the
United States and Israel could benefit
from that if only if only
the Biden Administration uses its
leverage with Israel instead of paying
this silly good cup bad cup touchy feely
thing with netan government when it
needs to act like the grownup superpower
it is M Bashar great to hear your
thoughts thanks for joining us once
again